---
layout: post
title: "Humans in Space"
published: true
---

We were recently asked to give a 1-2 hour session for one of the Enhanced Mini Course Program (ECMP) at Carleton University. Participating students come local grade 7 - 10 schools in the Ottawa area. Myself and a colleague are asked to help out with the course called **Humans in Space**. Colleagues have helped out with this course in the past, but now its our turn to update the experience for the students.

So, what did we come up with?
---------------------
Content for our presentation has pretty well been left out to us. Below is our thought process and what we've come up with so far. Some of the goals of the session are:
1. Show students how to choose authoritative resources. In this case, these resources are related to space exploration.
2. Show some map literacy skills while looking at both paper and digital sources.

Format of the presentation
---------------
1. Start with a 20 minute presentation of what we'll doing this day. It should include:

  a. Present the concepts of the session
  b. Show how to best find information
  c. Show how to find and read maps

After each of these sessions, include some kahoot questions to see if they've retained some of the information that we've showed them.

2. The students will be asked to plan their next trip to space, with one of the following as their final destination:

  a. Moon
  b. Mercury
  c. Mars
  d. Venus

3. Deliverables:

On one side of a sheet paper, a checklist that they've found everything that they need to travel to this place. I should probably look at travel checklists and mimic that a bit. The other side of the sheet of paper will read like a story, with blank sessions for the students to fill out.

4. At the end of session, we'll ask them to bring their completed sheet of paper to us (kind of like bringing an itineary and passport to an office) and then we'll supply them with their boarding pass to their final destination.

Tools used
---------
1. Kahoot - online survey and question type tool that we can use to quiz the students on knowledge learned.
2. Padlet - online tool that requires no username and password to use where students can keep notes and resources of where they found stuff. 
